.\" 
.\" cdef manual page.
.\" (C) 2016 Francois 'ftiff' Levaux-Tiffreau
.\"  
.\" Author:
.\"   Application - Francois 'ftiff' Levaux-Tiffreau (fti@me.com)
.\"   Man Page - Richard Purves (richard@richard-purves.com)
.\"
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.TH cdef "v0.3.0"
.SH NAME
cdef \- A command-line tool to select default applications for document types and URL schemes on Mac OS X.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B cdef [ -readDocumentTypes | -readURLTypes ] [application path]
.br
.B cdef [ -readAllUti | -readDefaultUti | -readDefaultUrl ] [parameter]
.br
.B cdef [ -writeDefaultUti | -writeDefaultUrl ] [parameter1] [parameter2]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcdef\fP - A command-line tool to select default applications for document types and URL schemes on Mac OS X.
.PP
\fIcdef\fP is a utility to set default application behaviour on Mac OS X, using
Uniform Resource Locators (URL) or Apple's Uniform Type Identifiers. A \fIUTI\fP
is a unique string describing the format of a file's content, so with cdef,
a user or administrator can change which application acts as the default for the specified URL or UTI.
.SH RUNTIME OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.TP
\fB-readAllUti\fR [UTI]
Shows all applications that can open the specified UTI.
.IP
\fIExample\fP: cdef -readAllUti public.png
.TP
\fB-readDefaultUti\fR [UTI]
Shows the default application that opens the specified UTI.
.IP
\fIExample\fP: cdef -readDefaultUti public.png
.TP
\fB-readDefaultUrl\fR [URL]
Shows the default application that can open a URL type.
.IP
\fIExample\fP: cdef -readDefaultUrl http
.TP
\fB-writeDefaultUti\fR [UTI] [BUNDLE_ID]
Changes the default application for a given UTI.
.IP
\fIExample\fP: cdef -writeDefaultUti public.png com.pixelmatorteam.pixelmator
.TP
\fB-writeDefaultUrl\fR [URL] [BUNDLE_ID]
Changes the default application for opening an URL (scheme://).
.IP
\fIExample\fP: cdef -writeDefaultUrl http com.google.chrome
.TP
\fB-readDocumentTypes\fR [UTI] [Application]
Read the Document Types associated with Application.
.IP
v -> Application is default for this type
.br
x -> Application supports but is not default for this type
.IP
(Viewer) -> Application can open these files in read-only
.br
(Editor) -> Application can modify these files
.br
(None)   -> Application does not support this files
.IP
\fIExample\fP: cdef -readDocumentTypes /Applications/Mail.app/
.TP
\fB-readURLTypes\fR [URL] [Application]
Read the current supported URL schemes (scheme://).
.IP
\fIExample\fP: cdef -readURLTypes /Applications/Mail.app/
.SH AUTHOR
Francois 'ftiff' Levaux-Tiffreau <fti@me.com>
.SH WEB SITE
https://github.com/ftiff/cdef
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/Miscellaneous/Reference/UTIRef/Articles/System-DeclaredUniformTypeIdentifiers.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40009259-SW1